source/openstack/guests.rst, before:

.. _openstack-guests:

OpenStack Guest Images
======================

This documentation covers the steps needed to build OpenStack guests using a tool called `packer`. In addition,
we include documentation which covers how to build the images manually in case you run into issues with packer.

Current Images
--------------

We are currently maintaining these images:

.. csv-table::
   :file: ./csv/images.csv
   :widths: 40, 15, 15, 15, 15
   :header-rows: 1

We are currently maintaining ppc64le Little endian (LE) images for POWER8/9 and some ppc64 Big Endian (BE) images
for POWER8. See the below table:

.. note:: IBM is focusing their efforts primarily on LE, so BE support is mostly limited to older distributions.

.. csv-table::
   :file: ./csv/power_endian.csv
   :widths: 55, 15, 15, 15
   :header-rows: 1

If there are any other images you would like us to create, please let us know.

Building images with packer
---------------------------

We build all of our images using `packer`_ via our `packer-templates`_ github repo. Builds are triggered via opening a
pull request with the changes that are needed. Once an image has been built, `openstack_taster`_ will test to ensure
the images will work properly on our openstack cluster.

.. _packer: http://www.packer.io/
.. _packer-templates: https://github.com/osuosl/packer-templates
.. _openstack_taster: https://github.com/osuosl/openstack_taster

Manual Guest Installation
-------------------------

.. note:: This is only useful for manually testing some images and is no longer used for building images.

.. note:: For AARCH64, Please run the following commands on one of the machines directly. Also, make sure you have the ``AAVMF`` package installed which contains the UEFI firmware to boot the VMs properly.

1. Download the DVD or net install ISO for desired distribution. For this example we are using Debian 10:

.. code-block:: bash

    export DISTRO="debian-10"
    export DISTRO_ISO="debian.iso"

2. Create a 3G qcow2 disk image:

.. code-block:: bash

    qemu-img create -f qcow2 $DISTRO.qcow2 3G

3. Boot up the image using kvm manually:

x86 / POWER:

.. code-block:: console

   $ /usr/libexec/qemu-kvm -m 2048M -boot strict=on -name $DISTRO -machine type=pseries,accel=kvm \
     -cdrom $DISTRO_ISO -netdev user,id=user.0,hostfwd=tcp::2222-:22 \
     -device virtio-net,netdev=user.0 \
     -drive file=$DISTRO.qcow2,if=virtio,cache=writeback,discard=ignore,format=qcow2 \
     -vnc 0.0.0.0:99

AARCH64:

.. code-block:: console

   $ /usr/libexec/qemu-kvm -m 2048M -boot strict=on -name $DISTRO -machine gic-version=3,accel=kvm \
     -cdrom $DISTRO_ISO -netdev user,id=user.0,hostfwd=tcp::2222-:22 \
     -cpu host -monitor none \
     -drive file=$DISTRO.qcow2,if=virtio,cache=writeback,discard=ignore,format=qcow2 \
     -bios /usr/share/AAVMF/AAVMF_CODE.fd
     -vnc 0.0.0.0:99

4. Connect via VNC to the VM and complete the installation:

.. code-block:: console

  $ vncviewer $host:99

5. Wait for the VM to complete the install.

6. Compress and import image into OpenStack:

.. code-block:: console

      $ qemu-img convert -O qcow2 -c $DISTRO.qcow2 $DISTRO-compressed.qcow2
      $ source openrc
      $ glance image-create --name $DISTRO --disk-format=qcow2 \
        --container-format=bare < $DISTRO-compressed.qcow2

.. rubric:: Footnotes

.. [#ubuntu] We are currently fixing some issues with our Ubuntu 20.04 images.

Commit message:

use https links, add ubuntu 20.04 issue link

source/openstack/guests.rst, after:

.. _openstack-guests:

OpenStack Guest Images
======================

This documentation covers the steps needed to build OpenStack guests using a tool called `packer`. In addition,
we include documentation which covers how to build the images manually in case you run into issues with packer.

Current Images
--------------

We are currently maintaining these images:

.. csv-table::
   :file: ./csv/images.csv
   :widths: 40, 15, 15, 15, 15
   :header-rows: 1

We are currently maintaining ppc64le Little endian (LE) images for POWER8/9 and some ppc64 Big Endian (BE) images
for POWER8. See the below table:

.. note:: IBM is focusing their efforts primarily on LE, so BE support is mostly limited to older distributions.

.. csv-table::
   :file: ./csv/power_endian.csv
   :widths: 55, 15, 15, 15
   :header-rows: 1

If there are any other images you would like us to create, please let us know.

Building images with packer
---------------------------

We build all of our images using `packer`_ via our `packer-templates`_ github repo. Builds are triggered via opening a
pull request with the changes that are needed. Once an image has been built, `openstack_taster`_ will test to ensure
the images will work properly on our openstack cluster.

.. _packer: http://www.packer.io/
.. _packer-templates: https://github.com/osuosl/packer-templates
.. _openstack_taster: https://github.com/osuosl/openstack_taster

Manual Guest Installation
-------------------------

.. note:: This is only useful for manually testing some images and is no longer used for building images.

.. note:: For AARCH64, Please run the following commands on one of the machines directly. Also, make sure you have the ``AAVMF`` package installed which contains the UEFI firmware to boot the VMs properly.

1. Download the DVD or net install ISO for desired distribution. For this example we are using Debian 10:

.. code-block:: bash

    export DISTRO="debian-10"
    export DISTRO_ISO="debian.iso"

2. Create a 3G qcow2 disk image:

.. code-block:: bash

    qemu-img create -f qcow2 $DISTRO.qcow2 3G

3. Boot up the image using kvm manually:

x86 / POWER:

.. code-block:: console

   $ /usr/libexec/qemu-kvm -m 2048M -boot strict=on -name $DISTRO -machine type=pseries,accel=kvm \
     -cdrom $DISTRO_ISO -netdev user,id=user.0,hostfwd=tcp::2222-:22 \
     -device virtio-net,netdev=user.0 \
     -drive file=$DISTRO.qcow2,if=virtio,cache=writeback,discard=ignore,format=qcow2 \
     -vnc 0.0.0.0:99

AARCH64:

.. code-block:: console

   $ /usr/libexec/qemu-kvm -m 2048M -boot strict=on -name $DISTRO -machine gic-version=3,accel=kvm \
     -cdrom $DISTRO_ISO -netdev user,id=user.0,hostfwd=tcp::2222-:22 \
     -cpu host -monitor none \
     -drive file=$DISTRO.qcow2,if=virtio,cache=writeback,discard=ignore,format=qcow2 \
     -bios /usr/share/AAVMF/AAVMF_CODE.fd
     -vnc 0.0.0.0:99

4. Connect via VNC to the VM and complete the installation:

.. code-block:: console

  $ vncviewer $host:99

5. Wait for the VM to complete the install.

6. Compress and import image into OpenStack:

.. code-block:: console

      $ qemu-img convert -O qcow2 -c $DISTRO.qcow2 $DISTRO-compressed.qcow2
      $ source openrc
      $ glance image-create --name $DISTRO --disk-format=qcow2 \
        --container-format=bare < $DISTRO-compressed.qcow2

.. rubric:: Footnotes

.. [#ubuntu] We are currently fixing some issues with our Ubuntu 20.04 images. See `this issue`_ for updates.

.. _`this issue`: https://github.com/osuosl/packer-templates/issues/124
