source/gsoc/index.rst, before:


.. _summer_of_code_for_osuosl:

Summer of Code for OSUOSL
=========================

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :glob:

    ideas*
    gci2010
    template

Welcome to the Oregon State University Open Source Lab Google Summer of Code
proposal guide page. Please look over our 2014 Ideas Page for some guidance on
what we're hoping to work on this year.

.. _gsoc-app-info:

Student and Prospective Applicant Information
---------------------------------------------

Thank you for your interest in the Open Source Lab's Summer of Code proposals.
Here at the OSL we have a two-part goal. First, we are a strong supporter of the
open source community and want to help as many projects as we can. Second, we
are an educational institution that tries to incorporate teaching and learning
into as much of what we do as possible. The Google Summer of Code helps us do
both.

We highly recommend you read the GSoC Student Guide to ensure your success in
writing your proposal and potentially being an accepted student in our
organization. Specifically please check out the writing a proposal guide and the
proposal examples so that you get all of the information that we need.

Project proposals
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Proposals that are written poorly or in an unprofessional manner, use improper
grammar or spelling, or do not answer all the questions in our application
template completely will be rejected.

It is important to note that none of these projects are cast in stone. We very
much want to work with our students on developing and shaping the project. Think
of this page as a general outline of some of the things we want to do. Don't be
afraid to propose something that does not exactly match what we have below.

You should also read the `GSOC student guide`_ and `GSOC FAQ`_.

.. _GSOC student guide: http://en.flossmanuals.net/GSoCStudentGuide/
.. _GSOC FAQ: https://www.google-melange.com/gsoc/document/show/gsoc_program/google/gsoc2014/help_page

Expectations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

It's important when starting a new relationship like this that both sides are
aware of the expectations involved. We're a pretty easygoing bunch here at the
OSL - we're far more interested in building neat stuff than we are about rigidly
following some policies and procedures manual. However, we do have some pretty
simple expectations:

- Good communication is vital. If we accept your proposal, we expect you to be
  talking to your mentor on at least a weekly basis. The method of communication
  - phone, e-mail, IRC, carrier pigeon- is up to you and your mentor, but the
  weekly contact is absolutely mandatory. Exceptions are possible, but only if
  pre-arranged. If we haven't heard from you in a week, your mentor will attempt
  to contact you with a friendly reminder. If we don't hear from you after the
  reminder, we'll send you a formal warning. If you don't respond to the formal
  warning, it is likely we will be submitting a negative evaluation to Google
  recommending you be dropped from the program. It sounds dire, but it's easy to
  avoid: just keep in touch.
- Commit early and commit often. As mentors, we need to see the code you're
  working on. It's really difficult to help someone if we can't see what you're
  doing. We won't require anything as rigid as scheduled code check-ins, but the
  more often you share what you're working on with the rest of us, the better
  things will go. There is one caveat: we absolutely have to have some code from
  you before the mid-term evaluation. We need something upon which to base our
  evaluation.
- You're part of the team. We're very egalitarian here at the OSL. We firmly
  believe that once someone is a member of the OSL you are always a member,
  regardless of whether you are with us as an SoC student, a community
  volunteer, or as an employee of the Lab. Before, during, or after the Summer
  of Code. Much of what we do is driven by consensus and we're not strong on
  hierarchy, so please don't hesitate to jump right in and express your
  opinions!

Contact Us
~~~~~~~~~~

Questions? Concerns? Want to ask us if we'd be interested in an application?

IRC - Drop in and visit us in #osuosl-gsoc on irc.freenode.net. If you're not
sure who to talk to ping Ramereth, kennric, or pwnguin in #osuosl-gsoc.

Our timezone is UTC -7, the best times to find us on IRC are between 16:00 and
23:00 UTC. We will usually see your comments outside of those times, but might
not be able to reply immediately. 

Email - gsoc-dev@osuosl.org

.. tip::
  
  Hint: if we've already talked to you about your proposal, it helps your
  chances for acceptance. We're happy to give feedback and suggestions on
  proposals, so it's a good idea talk to us before you submit it.

Project Ideas 2015
------------------

- :ref:`gsoc2015-data-center-tools`
- :ref:`gsoc2015-whats-fresh`
- :ref:`gsoc2014-other-projects`

Commit message:

Add mailing list subscription link

source/gsoc/index.rst, after:


.. _summer_of_code_for_osuosl:

Summer of Code for OSUOSL
=========================

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :glob:

    ideas*
    gci2010
    template

Welcome to the Oregon State University Open Source Lab Google Summer of Code
proposal guide page. Please look over our 2014 Ideas Page for some guidance on
what we're hoping to work on this year.

.. _gsoc-app-info:

Student and Prospective Applicant Information
---------------------------------------------

Thank you for your interest in the Open Source Lab's Summer of Code proposals.
Here at the OSL we have a two-part goal. First, we are a strong supporter of the
open source community and want to help as many projects as we can. Second, we
are an educational institution that tries to incorporate teaching and learning
into as much of what we do as possible. The Google Summer of Code helps us do
both.

We highly recommend you read the GSoC Student Guide to ensure your success in
writing your proposal and potentially being an accepted student in our
organization. Specifically please check out the writing a proposal guide and the
proposal examples so that you get all of the information that we need.

Project proposals
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Proposals that are written poorly or in an unprofessional manner, use improper
grammar or spelling, or do not answer all the questions in our application
template completely will be rejected.

It is important to note that none of these projects are cast in stone. We very
much want to work with our students on developing and shaping the project. Think
of this page as a general outline of some of the things we want to do. Don't be
afraid to propose something that does not exactly match what we have below.

You should also read the `GSOC student guide`_ and `GSOC FAQ`_.

.. _GSOC student guide: http://en.flossmanuals.net/GSoCStudentGuide/
.. _GSOC FAQ: https://www.google-melange.com/gsoc/document/show/gsoc_program/google/gsoc2014/help_page

Expectations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

It's important when starting a new relationship like this that both sides are
aware of the expectations involved. We're a pretty easygoing bunch here at the
OSL - we're far more interested in building neat stuff than we are about rigidly
following some policies and procedures manual. However, we do have some pretty
simple expectations:

- Good communication is vital. If we accept your proposal, we expect you to be
  talking to your mentor on at least a weekly basis. The method of communication
  - phone, e-mail, IRC, carrier pigeon- is up to you and your mentor, but the
  weekly contact is absolutely mandatory. Exceptions are possible, but only if
  pre-arranged. If we haven't heard from you in a week, your mentor will attempt
  to contact you with a friendly reminder. If we don't hear from you after the
  reminder, we'll send you a formal warning. If you don't respond to the formal
  warning, it is likely we will be submitting a negative evaluation to Google
  recommending you be dropped from the program. It sounds dire, but it's easy to
  avoid: just keep in touch.
- Commit early and commit often. As mentors, we need to see the code you're
  working on. It's really difficult to help someone if we can't see what you're
  doing. We won't require anything as rigid as scheduled code check-ins, but the
  more often you share what you're working on with the rest of us, the better
  things will go. There is one caveat: we absolutely have to have some code from
  you before the mid-term evaluation. We need something upon which to base our
  evaluation.
- You're part of the team. We're very egalitarian here at the OSL. We firmly
  believe that once someone is a member of the OSL you are always a member,
  regardless of whether you are with us as an SoC student, a community
  volunteer, or as an employee of the Lab. Before, during, or after the Summer
  of Code. Much of what we do is driven by consensus and we're not strong on
  hierarchy, so please don't hesitate to jump right in and express your
  opinions!

Contact Us
~~~~~~~~~~

Questions? Concerns? Want to ask us if we'd be interested in an application?

IRC - Drop in and visit us in #osuosl-gsoc on irc.freenode.net. If you're not
sure who to talk to ping Ramereth, kennric, or pwnguin in #osuosl-gsoc.

Our timezone is UTC -7, the best times to find us on IRC are between 16:00 and
23:00 UTC. We will usually see your comments outside of those times, but might
not be able to reply immediately. 

EMAIL - Our mailing list, gsoc-dev@osuosl.org, is the most reliable way to reach
us when we aren't on IRC. It's also a great way to connect with other GSOC
students and to share ideas. `Subscribe to gsoc-dev@osuosl.org`_.

.. tip::
  
  Hint: if we've already talked to you about your proposal, it helps your
  chances for acceptance. We're happy to give feedback and suggestions on
  proposals, so it's a good idea talk to us before you submit it.
  
.. _Subscribe to gsoc-dev@osuosl.org: http://lists.osuosl.org/mailman/listinfo/gsoc-dev

Project Ideas 2015
------------------

- :ref:`gsoc2015-data-center-tools`
- :ref:`gsoc2015-whats-fresh`
- :ref:`gsoc2014-other-projects`
